From: rshipley@illuminati.io.com (Rich Shipley)
Date:  6-DEC-1993  13:44:13
Description: Warp War - The Campaign Game

This is reprinted with permission from Steve Jackson. I just scanned it
in today, if you find any scan errors, let me know.

From The Space Gamer #33:

			 WARP WAR The Campaign Game

		  by Joseph R. Power and Steve Jackson
		   copyright 1980, Steve Jackson Games

After playing several games of WarpWar, many people hate to give up
their favorite ships. Now they don't have to. The following rules allow
for a multi-player "campaign" version of the game. They work best for
three to six players, though more can be handled if the referee is
patient.

Campaign WarpWar is a very slow game - natural, since it simulates
exploration and conflict over light-years of space and decades of time.
As a face-to-face game, it is best suited for club play (doing two or
three turns each meeting) or tournament play (where one heroic referee,
or better yet, a team, accepts one move per hour every couple of hours
for many hours of play). Campaign WarpWar also lends itself well to
privately run play-by-mail gaming.

The basic WarpWar rules will require the following additions:

			     I. The Referee

A referee (and, possibly, assistants) will be required to create the
galaxy, keep records on the ships and worlds, and give information to
the players as they earn it. The best record-keeping system is simply
to establish one 3 X 5 file card for each world or ship, keeping all
relevant information on it and updating it turn by turn. For a world,
the card should include name, hex number, owner, BP value, and
accumulated BPs at that world. For a ship, the card should include ship
name, configuration, missiles carried, tech level, and current
location.  If the referee has access to a personal computer, this
record-keeping may be simplified enormously.  If the game is being
played by mail, the referee will also have to handle combat; see PBM
Combat, below.

			  II. Creating the Galaxy

The WarpWar map is much too small for a campaign game. The referee will
need to get a large sheet of hex paper (preferably numbered) with at
least 400 hexes.
  Stars: Each hex has a 1 in 12 chance of containing a star; roll 1dl2
for each hex, or roll 2d6 and give it a star only on a roll of 11 or
12.  However, do not roll for a hex adjacent to an existing star; stars
are never adjacent.
  Warplines: Give each star a 1 in 4 chance of having a warpline to each
of the 4 nearest stars. No star will ever have more than 4 warplines.
  Home Worlds: Players' home worlds should be assigned in one of two
ways.  Either spread them more or less evenly throughout the map, or
distribute them around the periphery of the map with none in the
center. A purely random distribution of home worlds may lead to unfair
disadvantages. All home worlds have 10 BP.
  Other Worlds: Each star may be assumed to have one useful world. For
each world, roll two 6-sided dice and subtract 1 from the total to
determine BPs. Thus, each world will have a BP value of from I to 11,
averaging 6. BP value of a world does not change during the game.
  Home Defenses: There is a 1 in 6 chance that a world will have its own
defenses when discovered. If a world has home defenses, multiply its BP
value by 3 and give it one Systemship of that strength. Defenses will
always be hostile toward the players. It is suggested that damaged home
defenses NOT repair themselves--but if the referee wants to keep track
of neutral world ship repair, he can.

		       III. Movement and Exploration

Each turn, each player writes down his moves and gives them to the GM.
This is why the hexes should be numbered; if a ship has a movement
value of 20, its movement may be a string of 20 numbers.  Since a
player does not know what is in any hex until he enters it, he is
likely to encounter a star in the course of any long move. He should
therefore specify what the ship is to do if it finds a new star: either
continue moving or end its turn there.  If a ship enters a hex occupied
by another player's ship, it must stop; the referee will end its turn
there. However, a ship does not have to stop for a star, even if the
star is owned by another player. If you pass through a star hex owned
by another player, but do not stop, you will learn that there is a star
there, and that the system is owned by another player.  You will not
know what its BP value is or who owns it.  Movement is sequential. The
referee determines the movement sequence randomly each turn. He moves
all the ships belonging to one player before he moves any ships
belonging to the next player.

			    IV. Star Possession

A player is said to own a star hex if he can keep a ship on that hex
for one full turn without having any enemy ships present. If the star
was previously owned by another player, he must destroy or drive off
all defending ships and then keep a ship there for one full turn
without combat. When a player takes possession of a star, he controls
its BPs. He is told what its BP value is, and how many BPs (if any) are
accumulated there. (A star does not begin to accumulate BPs until it is
first owned by a player.) He is also told how many warplines that star
has - but NOT necessarily where they go. Once a player has visited both
ends of a warpline, he has charted the warpline itself and may use it
in a normal fashion.

                           V. Referees' Reports

Each turn, after all movement has been finished but before combat takes
place, the referee gives a written report to each player. This report
includes:
  FOR EACH WORLD WHERE HE HAS SHIPS: ships present; their owners; number of
warplines out.
  FOR EACH WORLD HE OWNS: all the above, plus its BP value and stockpiled
BPs.
  FOR EACH SHIP HE HAS: its present position; any other ships in the hex;
and who owns them.
  HEX POSITIONS for any new stars his ships discovered that turn. If the
ship stopped to explore, he gets information as per (1) above. If it just
passed through, all he finds out is that there's a star there.
  HEX POSITIONS for any allied ships whose hexes his ships passed through.
  WARPLINES that he has now learned about by visiting both ends.
  Anything else the referee feels he should know about - but treat all
players equally.
  After reading their reports, those players having combat to resolve may
do so.
  If the game is being played by mail, the referee's report will include an
account of each combat the player's ships participated in that turn. The
amount of information a referee allows a ship to report on the turn it is
destroyed in combat is up to the referee. He may assume that it beamed all
new data back to base before its destruction--or that NONE of the
information it collected that turn, even to the combat, is relayed to the
player . . . the ship simply vanishes if no allies survive to report. The
latter option makes for a cloudy but interesting game.
 
                            VI. Building Ships

A player may build ships at any star he owns, in normal WarpWar
fashion.  However, BPs may never be transferred from star to star. The
BPs a given system produces must be used there or not at all. You may
find it expedient to use smaller, less productive systems as "repair
bases" and save the more productive systems to build new ships.

                      VII. Tech Levels and Scrapping

New technological levels do not come automatically; they must be
bought, traded for, or stolen. All players start at Level 0.  To buy a
tech level, you must have the next lower tech level, and then spend 10
BPs times the desired tech level. To get from 0 to 1 costs 10. To get
from I to 2 costs 20--and so on. The BPs spent to earn a higher tech
level do NOT all have to be spent at the same time, or come from the
same place.  To trade for a tech level, you simply have to convince
another player to give it to you (see Alliances, below). Once you have
a given tech level, you can give it (or any lower level) to any player
you like.  To steal a tech level, you must capture a world owned by a
player who has a higher tech level. The greater the difference between
your tech level and his, the less you will learn from the devices you
find. If the difference between your levels is only 1, you get 5 BP
free toward your next tech level. If the difference is 2, you get only
4 BP, and so on. If you capture more than one high-tech world, you get
an extra BP toward your level each time.  A player may never advance
more than one tech level per turn.

                   VIII. The Diplomacy Option; Alliances

This is an added option which may be chosen on any round of combat. If,
on any round, all ships in a combat choose "diplomacy," then fighting
is ended there for that turn and the two players may form an alliance.
As allies, they may give each other worlds and/or ships as they see
fit, share technology, etc. As long as two players remain allies, their
ships may travel together. A ship passing through a hex with an allied
ship does not automatically stop unless its owner has given contingency
orders "stop for allied ships," or unless the allied ship's owner has
commanded that it stop any ship passing through its hex.  Alliances may
only be formed by players when they have ships in a hex to gether.
Alliances may be broken at any time.  If not all ships in a combat
choose the diplomacy option on a given round, the ships that did choose
diplomacy are considered to have chosen the "attack" option with a
speed of zero. They may not fire weapons, but may have screens up.

                            IX. Scrapping Ships

A ship may be "scrapped" at any time it is at a friendly world. It turns
into BPs equivalent to 1/4 of its present BP total. The BPs enter the
planet's stockpile and may be used on that or any later turn.
 
                               X. PBM Combat

If the game is being conducted by mail, it is impractical to have
players choose options each round of a long combat--it would require
months to resolve each combat. Instead, the referee should recruit
assistants -- one for each player -- who know the game. The assistant
referees represent the ship captains of their respective players. The
players may write standing orders of as much complexity as they wish,
to be followed by the captains when battle is joined. Captains are free
to use their own judgment on any matters not covered by the standing
orders. Thus, on a turn when players A and B have a battle, the referee
will meet with his assistants who captain for A and B, and work out the
battle. (If the standing orders include provisions for attempting
diplomacy, the battle may be unnecessary; the referee himself will be
familiar with all standing orders and will know this.) Of course, no
captain is familiar with the standing orders the other players have
given their own captains.

All in all, a complex and long-running game. The general system
outlined above could be used with other games besides WarpWar. Any
exploration-type space game - for instance, Stellar Conquest, Starfall,
StarForce, et al -- could be played by mail or in a tournament with
similar rules.

From: str@qdot.qld.gov.au (Shaun Travers)
Date:  8-DEC-1993  18:30:05
Description: WarpWar Rules (More!)

 WarpWar Additional Rules
========================
 
Warpwar PBEM would be fun [but slow]. I am willing to play. Anybody?
 
I did like some of the rules posted previously, especially
slowing down Warp Line usage based on PD and cannon. I haven't 
had a good look at them yet.
 
These ideas are all tested except the fighters as the person I
used to play WarpWar against has moved away. If you don't like
them, well, flame me :-)
 
Fighters
--------
 
I always thought fighters would make a nice addition to
WarpWar.
 
Fighters are similar to a combined missile and system ship.
they are denoted by an F.
 
Launching Fighters:
 
Fighters require a launch tube to launch or be retrieved. Up
to two fighters may use a launch tube in any combat turn.
Launch tubes are denoted by an L and cost 1BP.
 
It costs one Drive point to power an L (unless using fighters
as systemships - see below under alternatives).
 
Fighters cost 1BP to build and cost nothing to store on a
ship. However a ship can never carry more fighters than
originally designed for.
 
Beams and Shields cannot be used while launching or retrieving
fighters (unless fighters are launched during the systemship
phase). Missiles can be used.
 
Fighters always use the Attack option and my select any Drive
number greater than 0 (just like missiles).
 
Fighters do 2 points of damage.
 
The same fighter cannot launch and be retrieved in the same
turn. However one fighter may be launched while another is 
retrieved though the same launch tube.
 
Any fighters left behind after all other friendly ships with
Launch tubes have left will be destroyed after 3 combat turns
(life support is limited). Fighters can never be left in a
system alone. They must be stored on a ship at the end of a
turn.
 
Firing at Fighters:
 
A ship/fighter may fire a fighter or fire missiles at
fighters. Any hit destroys a fighter.
 
Normally a ship can only fire its Beam at one other target
ship. to alleviate this, a ship can be built with more than
one Beam Weapon. This means it can select more than one
target. To build an extra Beam costs 1BP. There is nothing to
stop the Beams combining to fire on a single ship. This rule
simply makes it possible to defend against fighters at a
slight cost. e.g. B=3 B=2 S=4 D=10. Cost is 25, not 24 (it has
a Warp Generator). Or, System ship B=1 B=1 B=1 S=2 D=7. cost
is 14, not 12.
 
Alternatives for fighters:
 
As the above rules are just ideas, I have other ones floating
in my head. The above rules still have the 'missiles that hang
around' feel.
 
1.    Fighters do one point of damage and cost 1/2BP each.
2.    Fighters are launched similar to Systemships (and during
      system ship phase) i.e. Ship must select D=0, S=0 to
      launch fighters. need Launch tubes but obviously they
      don't need power (I like this one as an alternative).
      with this rule, it may be better having fighters do 1
      point of damage, or systemships go by the wayside.
3.    Ignore the rule of Beams firing at one target if fighters
      are the only target.
4.    Fighters  cost 1BP, do one point of damage but select TWO
      drive numbers. Of course, this makes them easier to kill.
5.    Only one fighter per launch tube.
6.    Different classes of fighters: Anti-fighter fighters,
      Beam fighters (1 Point of damage), Missile fighters (2
      points of damage, two drive numbers, one-shot only but
      can be retrieved and reloaded from a ship).
 
After writing all this the ideas I like the most are: fighters
like system ships. One launch tube launches two fighters
during the systemship phase. F cost 1BP and do one point of
damage. They select two drive numbers. Beam weapons can split
their fire against fighters ONLY. Missiles can be fired at
fighters. different classes of fighters may complicate the
game. I wonder how well this works. Any ideas or preferences?
 
 
Tech Levels
-----------
 
At about Tech Level 4 I tended to build a 4 ships PD=2 B=1
and a carrier PD=4 SR=4 [conveniently adds up to 20 BPs - two
turns worth]. With +4 on each B and the ability to select 0 or
1 as a drive number AND have four targets for the enemy seemed
to be effective for a while. By this stage though the person
ahead tended to win.
 
To slow down Tech level increases we had a tech level increase
every two turns. TL1 Bs only were +1. at TL2 S were also +1,
TL3 M +1, TL 4 B at +2 etc. It made jumps at smaller intervals
and ships were often disadvantaged by other ships only two
turns older.
 
BPs
---
 
We used to play you required a system ship on each system to
obtain BPs. The centre 'home planet' gives 3 BPs, the 2 side
'home planets' give 2 BPs each, and each other system gives 1
BP. Obviously the systems ships on outer planets did not
cost much :-).
 
A connection of Warp Lines or a hex gap of no more than a
total of three hexes is required to any home planet.
[resources are assumed to travel via a freighter network]. If
a path was not available, BPs from that system were not
collected. BPs from outer planet could not be stored. [too
much paperwork]  Ships still had to be built at any of the
home planets.
 
-shaun
